# Getting Started

Please watch [this recording](https://ub.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=c38946b0-14dd-40a8-88aa-ab9800ff652f)
to learn who CCR is and what CCR offers to aid your research. 


The Center for Computational Research (CCR) at the University at Buffalo is a
high-performance computing center offering faculty and students access to
supercomputing environments, high-end visualization services, an on-premise
research cloud environment, and experienced staff to help you move your
research forward.


## Computing Resources at CCR

The Center for Computational Research has over 30,000 processors in three
clusters to support faculty and student research as well as local business
partners.    The computers are organized into a cluster sharing common
networking and storage.  University researchers use the computers in the
cluster through the batch scheduling system.  Specialized visualization servers
within the UB-HPC cluster are available for high end visualization tasks.
Researchers can utilize the CCR research cloud for projects not typically
suited for the HPC environment.  Database warehouses, websites, software
development projects, and other non-HPC scientific applications are examples of
what currently run in our research cloud.  UB faculty are permitted access to
the UB-HPC cluster for themselves and their students at no cost.  Additional
services and resources are available for nominal fees, collected to cover the
costs of the hardware and staff time.



## Accounts at CCR

UB faculty should read the requirements for CCR accounts and follow the
instructions to create their own.  Once the faculty has setup a project
following these instructions, he/she may add students, staff, and collaborators
to their group.  Please follow the instructions here to create and account and
project

Students and UB staff members sponsored by a UB faculty member may create
themselves an account but will not have access to CCR's servers until added to
a faculty member's project.  Instructions for that can be found here

External collaborators and industry partners must contact CCR help to request
an account.


## Application Software Available on the CCR Clusters

There are many scientific, engineering, bioinformatics, and visualization software applications already installed on the clusters.  You are welcome to install software for your own use in your home or project directories, if it doesn't require elevated privileges.   If it does, submit a help ticket to request the installation of the software package and, if it is possible, we will install it for you.  More information about software installations can be found here


## Getting Started Using the Cluster

There are several paths to getting started using the cluster.  The User Guide
provides a step by step guide to understanding and using the cluster.  

In 2020, CCR developed a series of virtual workshops to provide information on
a variety of topics.  We encourage users to watch the recordings of these
workshops prior to attempting to use the systems.

CCR staff may be able to provide your group with a private training session.
We would ask that prior to conducting this all users in the group have active
accounts, have viewed the virtual workshop recordings related to the work
they're doing, and logged in to get a feeling for the systems.  If you'd like
to request a training session for your group, please submit a help ticket via
this portal or email CCR Help.

Check out the Beginner Information in our knowledgebase


## Consulting

As a part of its mission to enable research and scholarship at UB, CCR provides
a wide range of consulting services in areas that include parallel computing,
software engineering, scientific and medical visualization, bioinformatics,
data analytics, urban simulation and modeling, computer animation, and cluster
management. In addition, the software engineering group have extensive
experience in custom software development, including GUI and web-based
interfaces. For additional information on these services, see our consulting
webpage.  To contact us to learn how CCR can help facilitate your research,
please submit a help ticket via this portal or email CCR Help. 
